---
title: One Way Ticket
updated: 2018-10-08 05:00
---

The man’s signature lay wet and glistening on the page. As he lifted his hand, the ink smudged and he stared, unable to look away from the dark smudge that now stained his hand. It’s possible that he would have sat there for eternity, entirely transfixed by the ballpoint’s effect on his skin, had the attendant not shaken him gently by the shoulder and directed him to a waiting area. 

He sat and took in his surroundings for the first time since entering the facility. He found himself in a gently lit room with chairs organized in neat rows facing a dark podium at the front of the room. A door stood behind the podium where attendants of various sorts flitted back and forth as they went about their duties. Above the door, in block lettering:

##### US MINING CO

There were several other men in the room but none seemed to be aware of the other’s presence. Each shared the same expression: eyes dull, shoulders slumped, and mouth slightly gaped. One man in particular was breathing heavy and appeared to be perspiring through his issued work clothes. 

The attendants were now finalizing their duties, eager to be home and away from the oppressive atmosphere that was taking over the waiting room. The lights in the room dimmed and the door behind the podium opened to a man in a dark suit. Without looking at the occupants of the room he stepped up to the podium and unfolded a piece of worn paper from his pocket. Reading into the microphone his voice echoed unnaturally in the small area.

Thank you for volunteering and welcome to the 14th Division of the US Mining Asteroid Division. US Mining leads the way in space and atmospheric mining, and your participation in the program is a testament to your patriotism. With that being said, I am happy to confirm that your stipend has been approved and your family will be receiving a weekly allowance per the …

His voice continued to drone, but the man was no longer listening. He closed his eyes and was remembering the months that had lead him to this room. 

A cramped apartment with leaky faucets. 

Empty wrappers strewn among the table, mixing freely with overdraft statements and the occasional forlorn lottery ticket bought in a moment of rare optimism. 

His wife’s face, once beautiful but now gaunt with hunger. 

The sounds of his daughter’s cries late in the night when she thought her parents were asleep. 

Loud machinery from his job, aching joints and muscles.

A perpetual hunch, partially from the physical labor but more likely from the emotional burden he carried.

The newsletter slipped under his door that promised hope. 

Physicals, mental examinations, and statements of intent. 

News briefings on the men chosen to leave the planet. 

Widows and children standing at the launch pad; tears streaming down their face as national music blares. 

Packing in the night, writing the letter that said goodbye but also promised security for his family. 

Arriving at the station, ushered by grim faced men and relieved of his personal belongings. 


He was stirred from his reverie by motion in the room. The man had stopped talking some time ago, and the others were now shuffling towards the door. Instructions filtered through the speakers, guiding the men towards the final preparations and departure station. Outside of the pod windows the shuttle’s hulking mass was visible, steaming in the early morning air. A crowd had begun to gather, no doubt the family’s of those who would be in the current batch. 

The man knew he would not see the faces of his loved one’s again. He had not told them of his sacrifice, instead he had left for work as usual, hoping that his letter would say everything he could — and couldn’t. 	

As the men began to strap in, each seat encased their heads and a heads up displayed showed biometrics and vital signs streamed from their personal devices. As he sat back, he noticed a blinking indicator that signified a voice message. He patched the audio through and heard his wife’s voice. Excited, her voice was barely coherent:

- I’m not sure why but I just felt like today was our day so I stopped on my way home and bought it! I know you always say I shouldn’t but this time felt different and it was. Honey, we WON! I can’t believe it, you’ll never need to work again and we can afford to send our little girl to school now. Call me as soon as you can, I love you.

The message ended. The man stared straight ahead, completely still except for a vein pulsing in his neck. All at once, he was pressed back into his seat as the acceleration from the rocket pressed him back into his seat and he was lifted from the planet’s surface. 


